# dotfiles

A backup of my custom configuration files together with scripts for their
maintenance.

## Scripts

### `dotfiles`

`dotfiles` script is responsible for restoring and backing up custom
configuration files listed under its `FILES` array. Items in `FILES` array are
paths. If a path starts with `HOME`, it refers to the `${HOME}` directory at
a user's side and to the `HOME` directory that lies in the same directory as
the script at the script's side.

To backup the dotfiles, type
```bash
./dotfiles backup
```

To restore them back, type
```bash
./dotfiles restore
```

To get the help, type
```bash
./dotfiles --help
```

#### Investigating the help

When you type `./dotfiles --help`, you may notice something like this
```
Restore or backup dotfiles.

Usage: dotfiles OPTIONS {restore,backup}

where OPTIONS are

  --backup, -b
      make backup of old files when restoring; a name of a backup has
      a form <old file name>.XXXXX.bak, where XXXXX is generated by
      mktemp -u; a backup is placed in a same directory as its
      original;

  --dry-run, -d
      print what will be done without taking any action;

  --help, -h, -?
      print this help and exit;

  --quite, -q
      restore/backup files quitely;

`dotfiles restore` restores files from script directory,
`dotfiles backup` back up files to script directory.

The list of files that will be restored or backed up is:

  /home/jdoe/jdoes_projects/dotfiles/HOME/.bashrc <-> /home/jdoe/.bashrc

```

Notice the last line. Suppose that your user name is `jdoe` and your home
directory is then `/home/jdoe`. Suppose that you have `dotfiles` cloned in
`/home/jdoe/jdoes_projects` directory and you are `cd`ed in it so if you type
`echo ${PWD}`, you will see `/home/jdoe/jdoes_projects/dotfiles`. Suppose the
path to `dotfiles` script is `/home/jdoe/jdoes_projects/dotfiles/dotfiles`.

Now what the last line means. In a case you type `./dotfiles backup`, file
`/home/jdoe/.bashrc` is copied to
`/home/jdoe/jdoes_projects/dotfiles/HOME/.bashrc` location. Conversely, if you
type `./dotfiles restore`, `/home/jdoe/jdoes_projects/dotfiles/HOME/.bashrc` is
copied to `/home/jdoe/.bashrc` location.
